---
layout: post
title:  "Using Cutting Dies and Embossing Folders Without the Machine"
categories: [ crafts ]
tags: [ guide ]
image: assets/images/12.jpg
---

Dies cutting machines are designed to be used with cutting dies and embossing folders. It cuts clean complex patterns in a matter of seconds and embosses paper very nicely. It makes the whole process quick, hustle free and provides great results.
Though using dies cutting machine has a few disadvantages: it takes a lot of space; it can be quite expensive; it can use the dies of the specific size only.

For quite a long time I was cutting paper manually with cutting dies and it was taking a bit of time and required a lot of practice. I was embossing paper with embossing folders also manually, but it was quicker than cutting with dies. Then I ended up buying the manual dies cutting machine to save my time and don't regret it.

Below I will describe methods and techniques I used to cut paper with cutting dies and emboss paper with embossing folders without dies cutting machine.

##### 1. Rolling pin for dies cutting and embossing

Steps:
- Take cutting mat
- Place a cutting die and place a piece of paper on the top of it / place embossing folder with paper
- Place a piece of acrylic plate on the top
- Roll a rolling pin over the 'sandwich', applying as much pressure as you can

From my experience, it doesn't work well with complex cutting dies as you can't apply enough pressure to cut paper. Also, it requires some skills and practices for this method to work. It works slightly better with embossing, but still, the pattern on the paper is not sharp enough as it's hard to apply enough pressure.
I ended up not using this method.

##### 2. Glass bottle for embossing

Steps:
- Take cutting mat to protect the surface
- Place an embossing folder with paper inserted into it
- Take a small glass bottle
- Use the edge of the bottle to press on the folder applying enough pressure and move the bottle along the embossing folder
- Make sure that you pressed on all parts of the embossing folder

This method worked for me as I had a suitable small bottle. It's much easier to apply enough pressure to the specific point of the embossing folder. The pattern on the paper is much more visible than if you try to do this with a rolling pin.
The only disadvantage is that it's easy to miss some parts of the embossing folder and it's hard to apply the same pressure across the whole embossing folder. As a result, the pattern might be less visible in some places on the paper.

##### 3. Score bone for dies cutting

Steps:

- Place cutting dies on the hard surface
- Place paper on the top of it
- Take the score bone or something similar
- Move the thin edge of the score bone along the sharp blade of the cutting die applying pressure
- Move along all the sides of the cutting die to cut the paper everywhere

It cuts quite well with this method, but it takes a lot of patience and time. If you don't have a score bone then you can use something similar, but don't use anything metal as it will ruin your dies. To be honest I destroyed quite a few cutting dies when I was using a metal knife instead of the score bone.

I hope this will help you to enjoy the benefit of using cutting dies and embossing folders without buying a dies cutting machine.


