---
layout: post
title:  "Which Adhesive to Use for Your Paper Crafts?"
categories: [ crafts ]
tags: [ glue, guide ]
image: assets/images/7.jpg
---
Ever wondered which glue is better to use for your next project? Honestly, I tried so many different glues before I found what works best for me.
I'll list below the types of glue that are commonly used for papercrafts.

##### 1. Glue Gun

A lot of crafters use a glue gun. If you are considering to use it choose the cordless option and be careful as it can get quite hot.
Glue guns are perfect for heavy-duty projects like the home decoration, but to be honest I don't find them useful for card making.

##### 2.Glue Stick

They are great for paper crafts like scrapbooking and allow to reposition the element until dry. It is safe and perfect for kids projects.
If you are thinking to use it other than kids projects consider investing in more expensive glue sticks as they will work better.

##### 3. Glue Dots

This can be a great option for your scrapbooking and card making. The advantage is that it works straight away and you don't need to wait for the glue to dry.
Glue dots come in different sizes and help to avoid the mess. Though sometimes it can be a little bit fiddly to use them. I prefer to use double-sided tape.

##### 4. Double-sided Tape

It can be just a thin tape or a tape with a foam layer which created an extra dimension to your projects. It's perfect for paperwork such as scrapbooking or card making.
It's a permanent solution that doesn't require any waiting time for the glue to dry. The only disadvantage is that you cannot reposition elements.

##### 5. Glue Pen

In case you are using some small die-cut elements consider using glue sticks. They allow a very precise application of the glue and work well on the paper.
It is perfect for scrapbooking and card making. The only disadvantage is that they dry out quite quickly.

##### 6. PVA glue

There are several versions on the PVA glue. The strongest one is Aleenes Tacky Glue which is widely used by crafters. It has a quick-dry option and original. It works very well with paper and dries clear.


##### 7. Glue runner

These are rolls of sticky tape in the plastic case. It's very similar to double-sided tape, but more comfortable to use. There is no drying time and very easy to use.
Good for card making and scrapbooking.
